---
description: Documenting the latest news around Pixel Vault's blockchain gaming ecosystem
---

# 🗞 Blockchain Gaming Ecosystem News

**On this page, you'll find:**

* [recent news](gaming-news.md#recent-news) - miscellaneous news related to the blockchain games
* [a summary of updates](gaming-news.md#summary-of-updates) - a summary of official updates shared by PV in relation to the game and game mechanics
* [useful resources](gaming-news.md#resources)

## 🚨 Recent News

* **8 Nov 2022:** the beta verson of the game will feature 16 Core Identities which were voted in by the community [(source)](https://twitter.com/inhabitants\_/status/1589769669006819328)

## 🗞 Summary of Updates

### Wen?

* _"We’re building a game where balance matters pretty critically, especially since this is a web3 game. And so the idea is to have staged small group play tests, we’ll probably reach out to the core committee first as a first round of play testers and then expand from there. Each iteration we’ll be improving game balance, sort of like the look and feel of it. Bugs are definitely a piece of it, but really the focus is going to be on making sure the game is fun and balanced and fair before we roll it out to the larger community."_ [_(source: Blockchain Gaming — An AMA with Aaron St. John, 15 Oct 2022)_](https://medium.com/@pixelvault/blockchain-gaming-an-ama-with-aaron-st-john-a05d36aedc4b) __&#x20;

### High Level News

* **Pixel Vault are working towards creating a AAA Gaming Experience for the MetaHero Universe:**
  * _"In partnership with a global, indie studio focused on the future of AAA games, we are working to bring the MetaHero Universe to life within an immersive 3D environment within the next year."_ [(source: From the Desk: An Open Letter to the Pixel Vault Community)](https://medium.com/@pixelvault/from-the-desk-an-open-letter-to-the-pixel-vault-community-6e46256a8f08)
  * _"Pixel Vault have teamed up with a seasoned gaming partner to create an immersive experience for your MetaHeroes."_ [(source: MetaHero Universe Update, 18 Aug 2022)](https://twitter.com/MetaHero\_/status/1560374739784310785)
* **PUNKS blockchain games leveraging $PUNKs will be created:**&#x20;
  * _"We have also begun the planning phase for the launch of PUNKS blockchain games (leveraging the $PUNKS token) in 2023."_ [(source: 10 Questions for GFunk)](https://medium.com/@pixelvault/10-questions-for-gfunk-d2a779a5971c)

### Game #1) MetaHero Universe 3v3 auto-brawler

* **The first iteration of the MetaHero Universe game will be a browser-based 3v3 auto-brawler:**
  * _**"**We've been working on prototypes for games for Pixel Vault for a few months. One of the things that came out of that process was a battler. I'm a strategic game player. It's the idea of converting the fast twitch play you get with a League of Legends type game, and turning it into more of a strategic affair. You get to watch cool video game action but really what you're doing is making strategic choices around a game economy. **** We zeroed in on doing all the strategic stuff but having the fights look like superheroes going to town on each other. I don't see another game that blends those genres."_ [(source: Aaron from the Pixel Vault Blockchain Gaming Conversation, 30 Sep 2022)](https://twitter.com/pixelvault\_/status/1575931315915849728)
  * _"We’re also inviting other projects to throw down in the auto brawler so there’ll be some seasons where we feature other IP which will be interesting – seeing how you match up against other known projects as well as other projects that PV will be releasing in the future. The idea is to create not just a PV brawler, but a web3 brawler that anyone can battle in." (source: denze's notes from Pixel Vault Blockchain Gaming Conversation, 30 Sep 2022)_
  * _"We’re going to do it all browser based. So you don’t need to buy any rig or anything like that. As soon as we get the auto-brawler out, the next plan is to try and get it on to mobile devices."_ [_(source: Blockchain Gaming — An AMA with Aaron St. John, 15 Oct 2022)_](https://medium.com/@pixelvault/blockchain-gaming-an-ama-with-aaron-st-john-a05d36aedc4b)__
* **MetaHero Identity holders will be able to play with their Identities, or draft them (i.e. let other people pay to use it)**
  * _"Of course, you can play with your own MetaHeroes, because that's awesome and you should get special privileges. But if you choose to, you can park your MetaHero and let people pay you to use it. That's the seed of the idea. It'll be a little more interesting because you still have game theoretic choices when you put your MetaHero up for draft that affect how appealing they are to choose from. You'll be competing against other MetaHeroes to get the intention of people who are using $POW to play the game. It's going to create an interesting marketplace dynamic around MetaHero traits."_ [(source: Aaron from the Pixel Vault Blockchain Gaming Conversation, 30 Sep 2022)](https://twitter.com/pixelvault\_/status/1575931101155295232?s=20\&t=62mtLBeYhLBl3L21Mo5h2A)
  * _"The way that it’s going to work is when you’re playing in tournament mode, there’s an entry fee to start and then you have a bunch of strategic choices to make. The first most important one is how you want to assemble your team. If you have MetaHeroes, it saves you choices that you can make on other things in the game, like which powers you want to use, or how many powers you want to equip in your first round. And so having MetaHeroes gives you more flexibility in the options that you have, but you still need a full team of three to play."_ [_(source: Blockchain Gaming — An AMA with Aaron St. John, 15 Oct 2022)_](https://medium.com/@pixelvault/blockchain-gaming-an-ama-with-aaron-st-john-a05d36aedc4b)__
* **MetaHero Identities will have powers related to their traits, but in addition, another collectible asset will be introduced to represent powers that can be used for battle**
  * _"Each MetaHero will have powers relative to their attributes. When we launch the game, we'll start with a few attributes. They will be unique powers that only MetaHeroes have. Eventually, I want to have them for as many attributes as makes sense. By virtue of those attributes, the MetaHeroes will automatically get them during battle. In addition, we'll introduce another asset that represents powers that can be used - not by any MetaHero - cos there's planets and certain specialities of MetaHeroes. It's a little like a collectible card game. If I don't have a MetaHero, I can collect these powers and apply them to MetaHeroes as appropriate, as they're available for draft, as they go into battle. My strategic decisions are: what powers do I have? Which MetaHeroes do they match up with the best? Which planets will I be fighting on? What do I know about my opponents?"_ [(source: Aaron from the Pixel Vault Blockchain Gaming Conversation, 30 Sep 2022)](https://twitter.com/pixelvault\_/status/1575931272920453120?s=20\&t=62mtLBeYhLBl3L21Mo5h2A)
  * _"They’ll start as a layer 2 NFT and then as you play with them and use the NFT more and more and level up your hero, level up the superpower itself, you have the opportunity to convert it over to a mainnet asset. And so the idea is to not dilute mainnet NFTs by making it very hard and skill based for which superpowers actually ultimately make it there."_ [_(source: Blockchain Gaming — An AMA with Aaron St. John, 15 Oct 2022)_](https://medium.com/@pixelvault/blockchain-gaming-an-ama-with-aaron-st-john-a05d36aedc4b)__
* **Gear Pods are re-usable and will be a constant source of goodies, with a risk/rewards element**
  * _"There's a special spot in my heart for gear pods. I'm not going to give away many details. You'll be able to open your gear pod. There’ll be stuff you can use in this game for it. We are in the process of making multiple games. I’m not making a single game, I’m making a platform for many games. I want this game to represent the first game in a long series of games that PV will be responsible for. But that also opens up a pathway where other partners and communities can get involved. Gear pods are going to be essential to that. There’ll be a gamified opening - when you can open it, you’ll get what’s inside, then they'll close and you'll have the opportunity to recharge them. There'll be a little mini game - like a gamified aspect to it, where there's risk and rewards to opening it, every time you open it. It'll be a constant source of goodies depending on how you play that game."_ [(source: Aaron from the Pixel Vault Blockchain Gaming Conversation, 30 Sep 2022)](https://twitter.com/pixelvault\_/status/1575931201311092736?s=20\&t=rJRYjv8C2TRm2hi-KNCP6g)
* **Planet tokens can be staked to earn rewards and planet holders will be able to participate in their own mini games**
  * _"There’s a couple different pathways for planet holders. You will get matched up against teams. Sometimes you’ll know which teams/planets you get matched up against, sometimes you won't. The planets you end up playing on – if you have staked your planet token - the planets will have a participatory game mechanic similar to MetaHeroes where they can earn rewards for participating through staking. The winner has to play some portion of winning rewards to the planet for hosting. That's a piece of it but there's actually a lot more. There's a whole other almost mini game for planet holders which will determine how big of a reward, how often the planet shows up for battle, and how much of a bonus MH from that planet will get when they fight on that planet"_ [(source: Aaron from the Pixel Vault Blockchain Gaming Conversation, 30 Sep 2022)](https://twitter.com/pixelvault\_/status/1575931160597008384?s=20\&t=rJRYjv8C2TRm2hi-KNCP6g)
* **$POW will be instrumental to the game & gaming ecosystem**
  * _$POW will be instrument for playing the game. One of my hopes is that we’ll get people outside the community interested in $POW because they want to play the game. It’s instrumentally important to this protocol that we teased in the video. (source: denze's notes from Pixel Vault Blockchain Gaming Conversation, 30 Sep 2022)_
* **Those without PV assets will still be able to play**
  * _"The game is designed to have different modes and tiers, largely in part due to the accessibility question. Want it to be easy for people to get into the game, play it, get a feel for it. They may not get as much out of it as they could - it’s so much funner if you really get into the community if you know what I mean - and if you’re in the community then it’s a different game. There'll be different challenges available to you. We want a pathway for people outside the community to get in, and special perks for those in the community." (source: denze's notes from Pixel Vault Blockchain Gaming Conversation, 30 Sep 2022)_
* **The grand ambition for Pixel Vault is to build a decentralised gaming protocol, which any developer can adopt to distribute, monetise, promote and publish games.**
  * _"I didn't come to Pixel Vault to make a single game or even a bunch of games. The most important thing to have an ecosystem based around games that is completely decentralised. If anyone has developed games before, they know the market for games is ridiculously competitive. My theory is that it's due to these centralised platforms. What PV is incubating - that I'm most excited about - is to act as a flagship title for demonstrating the features of this completely decentralised platform for distributing, monetising, promoting games and publishing games. That's the idea behind this protocol. We're working with a team that's building it. We're releasing it as an open protocol that any developer can adopt. The game is the cherry on top of this huge cake that'll change the way games are made forever in my mind."_ [(source: Aaron from the Pixel Vault Blockchain Gaming Conversation, 30 Sep 2022)](https://twitter.com/pixelvault\_/status/1575931360992034817?s=20\&t=rJRYjv8C2TRm2hi-KNCP6g)

## 📚 Resources

{% embed url="https://medium.com/@pixelvault/blockchain-gaming-an-ama-with-aaron-st-john-a05d36aedc4b" %}
Oct 15 - AMA following Blockchain Gaming Conversation on 30 Sep 2022
{% endembed %}
